# Building and Deploying Deep Learning Applications with TensorFlow:
## What is TensorFlow?
If you are new to machine learning, you may be wondering what TensorFlow actually is. TensorFlow is a software framework for building and deploying machine learning models. Machine learning is a different approach than traditional programming. With traditional programming, we write the program that tells the computer exactly what to do to complete the task. With machine learning, we don't explicitly tell the computer how to do something. Instead we show a training data and the machine learning algorithm uses the training data that come up with its own rules to complete the task. Developed at Google, TensorFlow was designed to be a common platform for building machine learning applications internally. In late 2015, they decided to share it with the world and release it as an open source application. TensorFlow is licensed under the Apache open source software license. That means you can use it, modify it, and even redistribute modified version of it. You don't have to pay any licensing fees to use TensorFlow. TensorFlow gives you the basic building blocks that you need to design, train, and deploy machine learning models. While it's flexible enough to be used for several different types of machine learning types of algorithms, it's typically used to build deep neural networks. Deep neural networks built with TensorFlow are used in many different areas like image recognition, where you recognize what objects appear in a picture. Speech recognition where you turn speech into text. Image style transfer where you can make a photograph look like it was painted in the style of a famous artist, or language translation where you translate from one human language to another. In this particular course, we'll use TensorFlow to solve a typical business problem estimating sales. We'll build a basic neural network that can estimate the sales of a new video game based on sales of past video games with similar characteristics. But everything we learn about building and deploying with TensorFlow works the same way no matter what kind of application you are using it for. TensorFlow isn't the only option for deep learning. TensorFlow is comparable to other deep learning frameworks like Theano, Torch, and Pytorch. Each framework has its own pros and cons, but all of them are popular within different research groups and companies. It's common for a machine learning researcher to be familiar with several of them. Since TensorFlow was Google solution, Google has helped promote it, and its become one of the more popular choices. It also works well with many Google products like their Cloud ML platform and for deploying machine learning models and Android mobile phones. TensorFlow is a low level toolkit. It can take quite a few lines of code to build a machine learning model in TensorFlow. Because of this, there are wrappers for TensorFlow that simplify common operations. The most popular wrapper for TensorFlow is Keras. Keras is a high level programming toolkit that makes it easy to build many different types of neural networks with only a few lines of code. Keras still uses TensorFlow behind the scenes to actually do the processing. It's a great choice if you don't need the low level flexibility of TensorFlow. My recommendation is to learn how to use TensorFlow on its own first, to make sure you understand what's going on behind the scenes. But once you're familiar with TensorFlow, it's great to also learn how to use Keras. It makes many common tasks much easier and it can be a great time saver.


# Build a simple model in TensorFlow

Let's practice the basic mechanics of TensorFlow by starting with something simple. Let's build a TensorFlow computational graph that adds two numbers together. Here's what the computational graph will look like. This graph has two inputs, X and Y. Those are the two numbers we want to add together. This graph also has one operation called 'addition'. That note simply adds together the tensors passed into it. Once this graph is defined, we can use it by creating a new TensorFlow session. Then we'll feed in values for X and Y, and we'll ask the session object to execute the addition node. The result we get back from executing the addition node will be the answer. Let's open up addition.py. Here on line two, we've imported TensorFlow so we have access to it. It's standard practice to import it with the name 'TF' so that we don't have to type out the whole word 'TensorFlow' every time we want to call a function. Next on line five, notice that I've called OS.Environ to set this environment variable to two. This just tells TensorFlow not to output as many log messages as it normally does. By default, TensorFlow outputs a lot of log messages to your console when you run the program. The messages can sometimes be helpful, but I've turned them off for these demos to make the output easier to read. Feel free to remove this line from any of the examples if you want to see the full TensorFlow logging output. Next, let's define the X and Y input nodes. When you create a node in TensorFlow, you have to choose what kind of node to create. The X and Y nodes will be placeholder nodes that get assigned a new value every time we make a calculation, so we'll create them as a TF.placeholder node and I'll create the first node on line eight. TF.placeholder... When we create a placeholder node, we have to pass on the data type. We'll be adding numbers here, so we can use a floating point data-type. I'll use TF.float32. We also need to give this node the name. The name will show up when we look at graphical visualizations of our model. I'll name this node X by passing in the parameter called 'name' with a value of X, and now let's define Y the same way. TF.placeholder, pass in the data-type, TF.float32 and give the name, Name Y. Now we can define the node that does the addition operation. In TensorFlow we can do that by creating a TF.Add node, let's do that on line eleven. TF.add Then we'll pass on the X and Y nodes to the addition node, that tells TensorFlow to link those nodes on the computational graph, so we're asking it to pull the values from X and Y and add the result. Let's also give the addition node the name. Name equals addition. And that's the entire definition for our simple computational graph. The model only has three nodes, so we can define it with just three lines of code but when you're building more complex models, this code can get quite complicated. To execute operations in the graph, we have to create a session. We create a session object this way on line 15 with TF.session as session. Now that we have a session, we can ask the session to run operations on their computational graph by calling Session.run. On line 17, we'll say result equals session.run, then we need to pass on the operation we want to run, in this case addition. When the addition operation runs, it's going to see that it needs to grab the values of the X and Y nodes, so we also need to feed in values for X and Y. We can do that by supplying a parameter called 'feed dict' so on line 17 I'll add a feed dict parameter and then we'll pass in X and give them the ray value of one, and Y, and pass in a value of four as a ray. And then finally in line 19, we'll just print the result. Let's run this code, I'm going to right-click and choose 'run' we're choosing run from the context menu because the keyboard shortcuts are different on each operating system, but feel free to learn and use the keyboard shortcut if you'd like. Okay, click 'run', and the result is down here in the console, we can see we got the right answer, which is five. Notice that I passed in the rays on line 17 for the values of X and Y, and the result we got back from TensorFlow is also in the ray. That's because TensorFlow always works with tensors, which are multi-dimensional rays. It's expecting us to feed in the rays and it will return rays, that means we can feed in multiple numbers at once for X and Y, let's feed in some more numbers on line 17. For X we're going to feed in one, two, ten, and for Y we're going to feed in four, two, ten. And let's run the code again by right-click 'run'. Now in the console we can see that we got back three separate sums, five, four and twenty. We could even pass in multi-dimensional rays for X and Y and it would still work the same way because we aren't just adding together two numbers, we're actually adding together two tensors. This might seem like a lot of work to add some numbers together, just to do addition, we had to define the model, create a session, pass in data, and then send it off to the TensorFlow execution engine and wait for the result. But TensorFlow's real value is when we are working with large data sets and computationally intensive operations. It can take the same operational graph we've defined here, and execute it across multiple machines who are using graphics cards with GPUs to accelerate processing. The same code in TensorFlow can scale from running on a low power device like a cell phone, all the way up to running on multiple servers in a massive data center.
